---
layout: post
title: Federal Laws
description: Summary of Federal Laws and Policies
image: assets/images/pic01.jpg
---

### FERPA - FAMILY EDUCATIONAL RIGHTS AND PRIVACY ACT

Provides parents and eligible students (at least 18 years old or attending a post-secondary school) with four basic rights:  
(1) the right to review educational records  
(2) the right to correct or delete inaccurate information in records  
(3) the right to limit the disclosure of records containing personally identifiable information  
(4) the right to file a complaint about non-compliance with the Department of Education  

Three main obligations under FERPA:  
• Parental consent  
• Maintain documentation of disclosure and access request  
• Notification of rights  

What does this mean for staff?  

•Secure materials that have confidential student information on them before stepping away from your desk.  
• Limit discussion of confidential information to staff who have a job-related reason to know.  
• Exercise caution so that other persons (staff or visitors) do not inadvertently overhear discussions involving confidential information.  
• Avoid using email to share confidential information.  
• Don't take confidential records where they are susceptible to theft.  
• Encrypt files with a password when sending confidential information via email.  

### PRPA - PROTECTION OF PUPIL RIGHTS AMENDMENT

Requires written consent from parents or students over the age of 18 before administering a survey, analysis or evaluation that requires students to disclose any of the following Sensitive Information:  
• Political affiliations or beliefs of the student or the student’s parent  
• Mental and psychological problems of the student or the student’s family  
• Sex behaviors or attitudes  
• Illegal, anti-social, self-incriminating, or demeaning behavior  
• Critical appraisals of individuals that have a close family relationship with the student  
• Legally privileged or analogous relationships  
• Religious practices, affiliations, or beliefs of the student or the student’s parent  
• Income (other than information required by law to determine eligibility for financial aid)

### COPPA - CHILDREN'S ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT

Sets forth privacy standards and obligations for online service providers that either target children or knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of 13.  
• Applies when a school engages a cloud computing service provider  
• Applies if a school engages in commercial activity (for instance, selling t- shirts online)

### CIPA - CHILDREN'S INTERNET PROTECTION ACT

To receive E-Rate discounts, schools and libraries must have an Internet safety policy that includes technology protection measures. The protection measures must block or filter Internet access to pictures that are: (a) obscene; (b) child pornography; or (c) harmful to minors (for computers that are accessed by minors).  
Before adopting this Internet safety policy, schools and libraries must provide reasonable notice and hold at least one public hearing or meeting to address the proposal.  
Schools subject to CIPA have two additional certification requirements: 1) their Internet safety policies must include monitoring the online activities of minors; and 2) as required by the Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act, they must provide for educating minors about appropriate online behavior, including interacting with other individuals on social networking websites and in chat rooms, and cyberbullying awareness and response.  
http://transition.fcc.gov/cgb/consumerfacts/cipa.pdf

### IDEA - INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT

Release and disclosure rerquirements are substantially identical to those in FERPA.

### NSLA - NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH activity

Stricter privacy provisions than FERPA, restricts who may have access to records on students who are eligible for free and reduced-price meals
